Hacktoberfest 2023 announcement blog (#6684)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/09/20/2023-09-20-Hacktoberfest-2023.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Hacktoberfest 2023"
tags:
- hacktoberfest
- event
- community
- newcomer
- outreach-programs
author: jmMeessen
links:
  discourse: https://community.jenkins.io/t/hacktoberfest-2023/9613
opengraph:
  image: /images/hacktoberfest/hacktoberfest_2023_social_600x300.png
---

image:/images/hacktoberfest/hacktoberfest_2023_logo.png[Hacktoberfest, role=center]

Once again, link:https://hacktoberfest.com[Hacktoberfest] is back!

> During this October event, everyone can celebrate and support open-source by contributing changes.

Author: "continuous learning". Thank you for explaining.

September is the perfect time to prepare for Hacktoberfest.
Get a jump start by finding projects to contribute to, adding "Hacktoberfest" tag to your projects, or familiarizing yourself with Git.

Note that seen the increasing popularity of Hacktoberfest and to ensure its sustainability for another decade, the organization is 
link:https://hacktoberfest.com/about/#digital-rewards[moving away from a free t-shirt reward to a digital reward].

---

== Contributors

This is what **contributors** need to know to participate and complete Hacktoberfest:

- Register anytime between September 26 and October 31 on the link:https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/[Hacktoberfest site].
- Pull requests can be made in any link:https://github.com/orgs/jenkinsci/repositories?q=hacktoberfest[jenkinsci] or link:https://github.com/orgs/jenkins-infra/repositories?q=hacktoberfest[jenkins-infra] GitHub project that is participating in Hacktoberfest (look for the "hacktoberfest" topic)
- Project maintainers must accept your pull requests for them to count toward your total

> - The new digital reward kit will include a customizable badge that evolves with each pull/merge request accepted by maintainers, representing the participant's journey in open-source and Hacktoberfest. 

Author: Good catch. I carefully checked for these cut/past errors. But a couple slipped through.

>   Additionally, winners will receive unique badges featuring a delightful surprise and gifts from sponsors. 
>   To celebrate their success, participants will also be able to share their winner's badge on the Holopin Hacktoberfest Badge Board of Fame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Additionally, participants will receive unique badges featuring a delightful surprise and gifts from sponsors. 
  Participants will also be able to proudly share their badge on the Holopin Hacktoberfest Badge Board of Fame.
```
updating to use participants instead of winners, as winners implies that there are losers of Hacktoberfest as well

Author: 👍

> - In previous years Hacktoberfest sponsors have given participants who completed 4 PR/MRs the option to plant a tree through Tree Nation instead of redeeming a t-shirt. 
>   This year a tree will be purchased for the first 50,000 participants that complete their first PR/MR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In previous years, Hacktoberfest sponsors have given participants who completed 4 PRs the option to plant a tree through Tree Nation, instead of receiving a t-shirt. 
  This year, a tree will be purchased for the first 50,000 participants that complete their first PR/MR.
```
suggestion to update phrasing

** link:https://dev.to/chrissiemhrk/git-commit-message-5e21[How to write a good commit message]

A good introduction to Jenkins contribution is the series link:https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvBBnHmZuNQIwIZ86HL39uot6751EOd-f[Modernizing Jenkins plugins] recorded livestreams.

---

== Maintainers

Jenkins and plugin **maintainers** need also to get ready for Hacktoberfest by preparing your project for contributions by following these best practices:

* Add the "hacktoberfest" topic to your repository to OPT-IN TO HACKTOBERFEST and indicate you're looking for contributions
* Apply the "hacktoberfest" label to issues you want contributors to help with in your GitHub project
* Add a CONTRIBUTING.md file with contribution guidelines to your repository
* Choose issues that have a well-defined scope and are self-contained
* Adopt a code of conduct to create a greater sense of inclusion and community for contributors
* Be ready to review pull requests, accepting those that are valid by merging them, leaving an overall approving review, or by adding the "hacktoberfest-accepted" label

> * Reject any spammy requests you receive by labeling them as "spam" and any other invalid contributions by closing them or labeling them as "invalid"

Reviewer 2: I made an edit to remove the "Adopt a code of conduct" entry, since we already have a Jenkins code of conduct that is published.
